.\" $kbyanc: life/xscreensaver/clife.man,v 1.1 2003/08/19 19:43:04 kbyanc Exp $
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "19-Aug-03" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
clife - colorized Life simulation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clife
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-cellsize \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-cellborder]
[\-no-trails]
[\-no-db]
[\-patterns \fIpath\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Colorized version of Conway's game of life.
Follows standard rules in which new cells are born when there are exactly 3
neighbors; the color of the new cell is the average of the 3 neighbors plus
some small random offset.
Existing cells survive if there are 2 or 3 neighbors, otherwise they die.
.PP
The universe is initially populated with several random patterns.
Periodically, additional patterns may be added to the universe at random.
In other words: this is a screen hack, not a research tool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 10000 (0.01 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of colors; note that when trails are enabled (the default), half of
the colors are allocated to the trails and half to the cells themselves.
Default: 100.
Maximum: 170.
.TP 8
.B \-cellsize \fInumber\fP
The height and width of cells in pixels.
Cells are always square.
Default: 5.
.TP 8
.B \-cellborder | \-no-cellborder
Whether or not to draw a border between cells.
This border is subtracted from the cells' size; if the cell size is 1 pixel,
this option is ignored.
Enabled by default.
.TP 8
.B \-trails | \-no-trails
Whether or not cells leave trails when they die.
This is purely a visual effect and does not affect the simulation.
Enabling this option allocates half of the available colors to drawing trails.
Enabled by default.
.TP 8
.B \-db | \-no-db
Whether to double buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-patterns \fIpath\fP
The \fIclife\fP program has 3 simple Life patterns builtin: the standard
glider, B-heptomino, and rabbits patterns.
This option specifies a path to find additional Life 1.05 format pattern
files, from which \fIclife\fP will select patterns at random at startup.
Multiple search directories may be specified by separating them with colons.
If you get bored with the builtin patterns, a good collection of Life 1.05
pattern files can be found at: http://www.ibiblio.org/lifepatterns/#patterns
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH BUGS
The pattern file parser is pretty primitive: it only reads Life 1.05 format,
and only just barely at that.
If a file other than a Life 1.05 pattern file is in any of the directories
specified in the patterns path, \fIclife\fP will naively try to load it as
a pattern file.
Note that few of the patterns bundled with \fIxlife\fP are in Life 1.05 format,
so please don't try to run \fIclife\fP with \fIxlife\fP's patterns.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Kelly Yancey.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Kelly Yancey.
